[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: I wanna talk
about various variations.
We've already seen that if you wanna
make yourself an empty function or
an empty parameter list, you're gonna
have to use some sort of placeholder.
Typically somebody will use something
like the parenthesis, the open and
close parenthesis like we see here.
You also might see people just
put in a placeholder variable.
Now I really hate that people use the
underscore as that placeholder variable.
They also like to do it without any spaces
to suggest the idea that this is
a variable that I don't care about.
So I'll just use this
placeholder underscore variable.
Some people like to use X as
their placeholder variable.
X is definitely better
than the underscore,
that's especially true if you're
working with the underscore library.
And if you're working with underscore or
low dash, please,
please don't use underscore as
your placeholder variable name.
Unless you're trying to confuse people.
Unless you're trying to
create visual hiccups.
If your goal like mine is to
create more readable code,
please avoid those sorts of tricks that
cause more problems for the reader.
So when the case is that we have
one variable that we either need or
we don't need.
And it's a simple lexical identifier,
we can just simply list it there
without any parentheses out.
There will be several additional
features that we're going to talk about
throughout this workshop.
That ES6 affords us the capability
to do more with our parameters.
There is, as a matter of fact, three.
There are default values,
spread, and destructuring.
These are three different sorts of things
that we can do with our parameters.
We're going to talk
about each one of those.
So don't worry if I just started
speaking Greek to you but
in all three of those cases if you use any
one of them or combination of those three.
Even with a single variable
you're going to have to put
a parentheses set around it.
So if I use the dot dot dot for example
the gather operator on my parameter.
I got to have parentheses set around it.
>> Kyle Simpson: So there's our first
set of variation is that we can either
see open close parentheses hanging around.
And by the way open close parentheses the
problem with that as your placeholder of
your parameter list, looks an awful
lot like a function invocation.
So people see that and they normally
think something just got executed but
wait no this is the parameter list.
So see there's already more visual hiccups
than what we had before with
writing out the word function.
So any one of our nonstandard things
also if you're going to have multiple
variables.
Like for example X and Y.
And your arrow function is going to do
something perhaps with the X and the Y.
If you have multiple parameters they
have to be surrounded by parentheses.
Little side note, this is not standard yet
there is a proposal, to have what's
called headless arrow functions.
Meaning if we don't need a parameter list
we can just completely leave it off.
That sounds awesome, until you then
realize that's yet another variation
syntax, or somebody's have to backtrack
visually to say wait a minute.
Was there a parameter list,
or was there not?
Because they're gonna
see something like this.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's not
confusing at all to anybody, is it?
So we're already starting to
collect quite a few of these
syntactic variations were not done.
All right so multiples, zero or
nonstandard parameters are gonna
have to have the parenthesis set.
Now let's go to the function body.
The function body in this sense is
called a concise function body.
You notice I'm just doing the constant
three here just to make it easy for
me to type over and over again,
so I don't screw my self up.
But it's an expression not
a statement in the concise
form it's an expression not a statement.
Meaning all legal expressions are legal as
function as arrow function concise bodies.
All legal expressions.
Now, in some languages,
statements are expressions.
But for historical reasons, and
JavaScript statements are not expressions.
So there are certain kinds of
statements that you might want to just
put in a concise body that
you're not allowed to.
And I have run into the most common of
those places where I get annoyed by
this statement versus expression problem
with arrow functions as the try catch.
Because I would really like for try
catch to be something that I could wrap
around the body of a concise method,
of a concise error function but I can't.
Cuz try catches is a statement.
And if you have a statement
you're gonna to state,
you're gonna have to wrap your
statement in a curly brace pair.
So if I needed to do something like for
example try catch.
Now I know this is silly with my 3
example but just to keep things.
That's not valid, so
unfortunately I'm gonna have to
put a curly brace pair around it.
But I'm gonna have to remember that that
thing's a statement and it's not valid.
Other examples of places where I've wanted
to do this, if statements, for loops.
Those are all statements that it might
be nice to have in the concise form.
And by the way,
we do concise if's blocks all the time.
Where we put if, if, if and
that's totally valid and
totally legal but it's not valid is
the concise body of an arrow function.
Because these are expressions
not statements.
So we have to wrap that
curly brace pair on it.
Now let's talk about what that non
curly brace pair is doing for us.
It's implying a return keyword,
this is implying that the value three
is the return value of this function.
Guess what happens as soon as you
put a curly brace pair on something.
No more implied return.
So you're gonna have to remember if you
run into one of those cases where you get
a wrap a curly brace pair on it
your'e gonna have to remember, oops!
Got to go back and
put my return key words in.
Yet another set of variations.
So now if for
whatever crazy reason you need to have
some curly braces around a thing you're
going to have to remember to go put
in that return inside of your block.
Or it's not gonna get return
there's no implicit return.
Yet another set of syntactic variations
that somebody running through your code,
they're gonna have these
visual hiccups like, wait,
why does it need a return here and
not a return here.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: If you have
a single parameter, can you still
put the parentheses around it?
>> Kyle Simpson: It is legal to still
put the parentheses around it but
the ES6 aficionados will jump out
of the shadows and sneer at you.
Why do you put those parenthesis?
You don't need parenthesis, don't you
know you can leave off parenthesis?
They have jumped out at me before,
so I'm just warning you.
They're there, they're in the shadows.
>> Speaker 2: But if you want
to return an object then you're
>> Kyle Simpson: We're not done yet,
you're absolutely right.
I love that my students always like
to be a half step ahead of me that
means I'm done exactly what I
ought to be doing as a teacher.
So what happens if the return
value that you want to return.
Saying needs to be an object.
>> Kyle Simpson: You can
probably spot the problem here.
The curly braces there are not going
to be treated as an object value.
They're going to be treated as
the curly brace pair around
making it not a concise body.
So if you want to make it a concise body
you might think I can just do another
curly brace pair but no no no.
You have to put parentheses just
around the body to be able to return
an object value.
>> Kyle Simpson: A lot of
different variations here.
In my opinion the variation in
syntax is a detractor from that
overall value proposition
that we seem to be making.
That, my God, I'm gonna write
code that's so much cleaner and
readable cuz I don't have to write
the word function, word return and
all those crappy curly braces and
all that other stuff.
If that's a value proposition we also
to make an apples to apples comparison,
have to also add in the negatives.
And the problem is a lot of people
only talk about the positives.
So I want you to make an informed opinion,
holistically, on the whole issue.
The choice that we make to write these
arrow functions does kind of take us down
this path of, but what about readability.
Now there are a few other
things that I want to point out
about the arrow function.
I don't want to draw too
much on this because
it's one of our not right parts but I do
want you to understand arrow functions.
A few other things to point
out about the arrow function.
They are anonymous.
They are syntactically anonymous there's
no way to give a name to an arrow function
syntactically.
You can't put some extra
name there before or
after the arrow symbol or
something like that.
Now most people have probably not thought
too much about well what difference does
it make if it's a name function or not?
Let me give you some
examples of places where
named function expressions are actually
a lot better than anonymous functions.
Any time your function needs to
make a self reference to itself,
typically that's for recursion.
But there are other cases where
your function might wanna make
a reference to itself.
For example an event handler that
needs to unbind itself after
it's run once needs a self
reference to itself.
If it's an anonymous function you
don't have a convenient syntactic self
reference.
So you're relying upon some crappy outer
variable that might be pointing to
the thing.
Another example where anonymous functions
fail is the fact that anonymous functions
show up as anonymous
function in stack traces.
So we see stack trace with 12
lines of anonymous function.
And we're in minified code so
they all say line 132, character 32,712.
And we have no idea what that is.
>> Kyle Simpson: So if you've ever had
a debug stack trace with anonymous
functions, you know that anonymous
functions are less helpful than if
the function has a name.
And if it's not just a name like foo but
a good useful name like, Handle clicks.
Now you start to get in your stack trace
a more reasonable idea of what it's doing.
So there are downsides to
using anonymous functions.
Now the astute in the audience is going
to think, I've heard of this thing.
Anonymous functions get what's
called name inferencing.
Say I have this,
I have a var foo equals and
I do one of these arrow functions,
like that.
It's an anonymous function expression
assigned to the variable foo.
If you run that code, and
ask what is the name property of it?
You are in fact going
to get the string foo.
So all of a sudden it start to look
like this isn't an anonymous function,
it's a function with the name foo.
That's called name inferencing.
There's a about a half dozen rules in the
spec for how the spec can make a guess.
And inference as to what name you probably
want to refer to that function by
based upon where that function
expression gets saved.
Okay sounds like our safety net right?
Sounds like okay great I'm going
to have all my arrow functions but
they're going to be non anonymous because
they're going to get name inference.
Except the problem is 99.999999999%
of all arrow functions
you're ever gonna write are gonna
be arguments to some function call.
Like for example,
>> Kyle Simpson: Like that.
This is the one case in syntax where it
doesn't have any name inferencing cuz
how could it possibly guess
what you want to call it.
It doesn't know what the parameter name
of the foo function is necessarily so
guess what happens?
It doesn't name inference in this case.
So in all the places where you're
probably going to use error functions.
You're probably not going to get
name inferencing like you think.
So they're gonna stay perpetually,
syntactically anonymous.